Update documentation (#250)
xenit-eu/dynamic-extensions-for-alfresco: documentation/Extension_Point_WebScripts.md

# Dynamic Extensions annotation based WebScripts

## Basic webscript sample

```java
@Component
@WebScript
@Authentication(AuthenticationType.USER)
public class NodeScript {
    @Autowired NodeService nodeService;

    @Uri(value = "/nodename")
    public Object index(@RequestParam NodeRef node, WebScriptResponse response) {
        Serializable name = nodeService.getProperty(node, ContentModel.PROP_NAME);
        response.getWriter().append(name);
    }
}
```

* `@Component` registers our webscript as a Spring bean. This is the basic requirement for any webscript.

> * `@WebScript` tags this instance as a webscript and allows you to set a description and family. (similar to the .desc.xml)

Reviewer: `@Authentication` is not described here

* mark a method that is capable of providing parameters (provider)

```java
public abstract class MyAbstractController {
    @Attribute
    protected JSONOutput jsonOutput(final WebScriptResponse response) throws IOException {
        return new JSONOutput(response);
    }

    protected class JSONOutput {
        private final WebScriptResponse response;

        public JSONOutput(WebScriptResponse response) {
            this.response = response;
        }

        public JSONWriter getWriter() throws IOException {
            response.setContentType("application/json");
            response.setContentEncoding("utf-8");
            response.setHeader("Cache-Control", "no-cache");
            return new JSONWriter(response.getWriter());
        }
    }
}
```

```java
public class TimeController extends MyAbstractController {
    @Uri(“/time”)
    public void sayHello(@Attribute JSONOutput jsonOutput) {
        JSONWriter json = jsonOutput.getWriter();
        json.object()
                .key("time").value(System.currentTimeMillis())
            .endObject();
    }
}
```

In addition, your can provide your own type based attribute resolvers.

> Let's say we want to able to add JsonObject to are Uri method arguments so that it would contain a JSON POST body:

Reviewer 2: >Let's say we want to **be** able to add JsonObject to **our** Uri method arguments so that it would contain a JSON POST body:

## Multipart uploads

There are 2 ways to handle uploads:

Using `Content`
```java
@Uri(value = “/upload”, multipartProcessing = true)
public void uploadContent(Content content, @Header(“Content-Type”) String cType) {
    content.getInputStream();
}
```

or a regular `File`

```java
@Uri(value = “/upload”, multipartProcessing = true)
public void uploadContent(File file) {
    file.isFile();
}
```

## Templates

By returning a `Map` from your controller, the framework knows to look for a matching template.

```java
@Component @WebScript
public class Sample {
    @Uri(“/hello/{name}”)
    public Map<String,Object> sayHello(@UriVariable String name) {
        Map<String,Object> model = new HashMap<String,Object>();
        
        model.put("name", name);
        
        return model;
    }
}
```

The template is expected to reside in the same package and the name is constructed as follows:
`<class>.<method>.<httpmethod>.<format>.ftl` -> `Sample.sayHello.get.html.ftl`

If you do not provide a template with the correct name, the expected path + name will be printed in the output.

> You can also define an explicit template path using `@ResponseTemplate`. With this annotation set on the method, a template will be used despite the return type. (Map no longer required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also define an explicit template path using `@ResponseTemplate`. With this annotation set on the method, a template will be used regardless of the return type. (Map no longer required)
```

As a final note, you can also inject the model:

```java
public void sayHello(@Model Map<String,Object> model) {
    model.put("name", name);
}
```

This can be very useful in combination with `@Before` handlers. (provide default model data)

## Error templates

> When (not if) errors occur, you might want to have a special template in place to render the error or a useful error message for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When errors occur, you might want to have a special template in place to render the error or a useful error message for the user.
```

The power of a Resoluton comes with reuse:
if your webscript needs to output JSON, you can return an anonymous implementation of `JsonWriterResolution`:

```java
@Uri("/api/hello")
public Resolution sayHello() {
  return new JsonWriterResolution() {
    void writeJson(JSONWriter jsonWriter) throws JSONException {
      jsonWriter.object()
        .key("message").value("hello")
        .endObject();
    }
  };
}
```

If you want to use another Json serialisation library, create a new subclass of `JsonResolution`.

Because resolutions are returned, they automatically control the flow of your Uri method.

## Request and ResponseBody

Since version 1.7, there is support for the Spring [RequestBody](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/bind/annotation/RequestBody.html) and [ResponseBody](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/bind/annotation/ResponseBody.html) annotation. These work with using HttpMessageConverters. At the moment, there are only 2 HttpMessageConverterts available by default. The Jackson converter for json, and the JAXB converter for xml.

### RequestBody

> The `@RequestBody` annotation will _resolve the method argument depending on the content type of the request._ When annotating a method parameter with this, the body of the request will be automatically resolved to the parameter object. Dynamic extensions will select a resolver based on the `Content-Type` header from the request. If no resolver for the specified content-type can be found, a `RuntimeException` will be thrown. 

Reviewer 2: If I read this for the first time, I would think that I need to define these resolvers myself, but if I POST some json that can deserialize to the MyObject below, I'd be fine, right? This is a very useful feature so maybe we should make a bit clearer how useful this is.

Author: I moved this above the `Resolutions` section to avoid confusion & 'bump it's importance'.
I think if you read this before the `Resolutions` section, you'dd be less confused?

Reviewer 2: That would be good, yes.

```java
@Uri(value = "/example", method = HttpMethod.POST)
public void exampleRequestBody(@RequestBody MyObject thing) {
    // do some work
}
```

There is also support for the `required` parameter in the annotation. When `required = true`, an exception will be thrown of the body of the request is empty.

### ResonseBody
When annotating a webscript with the `@ResponseBody` annotation, the _method return value should be bound to the web response body_. This means that when your webscript returns an Object, that object should be serialized to a data format that the client accepts. This format has to be specified in the `Accept` header from the request. If no accept header is present, the webscript default format will be used.

```java
@Uri(value = "/getPerson", defaultFormat = MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON_VALUE)

> @ResponseBody

Reviewer 2: Is this correct? I thought the `@ResponseBody` needed to annotate the specific type which it serializes. Like so:
```java
@Uri(value = "/getPerson", defaultFormat = MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON_VALUE)
public @ResponseBody Person handleDefaultResponse(…
```

Reviewer: This is exactly the same. You do not have annotations on return types, they are always annotations on the method.

Reviewer 2: I wasn't aware, thanks!

Author: This is exactly the same, `@ResponseBody` is a method annotation. Also methods can only have a single return type?

Reviewer 2: Yeah it's fine I was just confused on how annotations work in Java.
